>> Kyle Simpson: Now, we finally get
to talk about the module pattern.
We've built ourselves up through
a solid understanding of lexical scope.
Lexical scope gives us an understanding
of how closure works, and
closure then is a necessary component
to understand the module pattern.
Before we look at what
the module pattern is,
we need to look at what
the module pattern is not.
This is an extremely common pattern,
a common pattern where you have a set of
behavior-like functions and a set of
data that those functions operate on.
And you wanna collect them together into
some logical unit, the simplest way is to
just make an object and put your data and
your functions directly on the object.
I would say that this has a name,
unofficially, but
this had a name as a pattern,
this is the namespace pattern.
Taking a set of functions and data and
putting them inside of an object,
putting them as properties
instead of variables,
it is effectively collecting
them into a namespace.
Not really a syntactic
feature of the language, but
it's an idiom that we make
namespaces with objects.
And for years,
this was an extremely common pattern.
This is how people collected
functionality together.
This was sort of the primitive
data structure, if you will.
Nothing wrong with this
particular pattern.
I've used it on many occasions.
You've probably seen it in your own code.
But i would tell you it is definitely,
100%, positively not a module.
And the reason it's not a module
is that the module pattern
requires the concept of encapsulation.
Encapsulation is a fancy sounding CS word.
All it really means is the idea
of hiding data and behavior.
All it really means is,
not only have I collected it together,
which is what the namespace creates,
but I need some notion of hiding,
some idea for information hiding,
or some control over visibility.
A module, the idea of a module,
is that there are things that are public,
that's your public API, and
there are things that are private,
that's things that nobody
on the outside can touch.
There's an idea of visibility, even if the
only visibility notion is either public or
private, that is still an incantation
of the idea of encapsulation.
So if you wanna have a module,
you gotta have encapsulation,
you gotta have data hiding.
And here,
we can clearly see that the properties and
functions that exist are public,
therefore it's not a module.
So we can take this same idea and layer
on the idea, or layer on the technique
of encapsulation of information hiding,
and we all of the sudden make it a module.
So let's look at what that looks like.
The classic module pattern, sometimes
referred to as the revealing module
pattern, it encapsulates data and
it does so with closure.
That's key.
So you can't have a module,
if you don't have closure.
It's just not possible, okay?
Even the F6 modules, which we will talk
about in a little bit, conceptually,
we need to think about them as closure.
The module pattern,
first sort of codified as the classic or
the revealing module pattern.
It was codified by
Doug Crawford-ish in 2001,
and this is kinda what it looks like.
It has two components to it.
Number one,
we have an outer enclosing function.
In this case, it's an IIFE,
everybody see the IIFE there?
It's an IIFE, and
when we run a module as an IIFE, that's
kind of like saying it's a singleton.
Since we know IIFEs run once and
then they're done,
this is sort of like a singleton.
It runs once, and then it's done,
except done only in the air quote sense,
because the closure is gonna
prevent that scope from going away.
The second component then,
is that we have an inner function,
in this case ask on line 7,
that is closed over those variables,
in this case,
it is closed over the teacher variable.
Since it's closed over
the teacher variable,
the workshop object on the outside,
which has now reference to that function,
is preserving that inner
scope through closure.
Ask is closed over teacher, and
when we say workshop.ask on the outside,
that's scope didn't get garbage collected
and go away, that scope is still there,
that state is still there,
and that's how we effect or
create the module pattern,
the idiom of module pattern in JavaScript.
We keep our private state private,
and we expose things on an object,
like what I'm doing here
with the public API object.
Is I'm exposing only the ask function.
But I could have hundreds of other
functions that were private,
that could not be accessed
from the outside.
And yet the closure functions
can access them all day long,
if they want to, because of closure.
So I can say workshop.ask, but
I can't say workshop.teacher.
Teacher is hidden.
Roll that.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's closure inaction.
It's only one of hundreds of
possible applications of closure.
But we couldn't do the module
pattern in this way.
We couldn't affect this idea of
information hiding of encapsulation
without closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's critical to
recognize here is that this usage of
closure is actually closing over variables
that are designed to change state
over time.
That's the whole purpose of a module,
is to track state over time.
In fact, I'd go so far as to say, if you
have a thing that you call a module,
and it doesn't have any state, or rather,
it doesn't have any state that
ever changes, it's not a module.
It's just an over-engineered namespace,
okay?
The purpose of a module is that you have
some state that you're closed over, and
you are controlling access to it
by exposing a minimal public API.
Remember that principle of
least exposure privilege?
That's in action here.
We're saying keep everything hidden,
except minimally expose only
what's necessary on the outside.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's the idea here.
Minimally expose only what's necessary.
That's the module pattern.
Now, the previous slide had a module IIFE,
AKA, a module singleton.
But that's not the only
way to make modules.
We can make just regular functions
that can be called multiple times.
And every time a function is called,
it's gonna produce a new
instance of our module.
We lovingly refer to those
as factory functions, okay?
This is a workshop
module factory function.
I can call it once, like I do on line 12,
but I could call it a hundred other times
and have a hundred other separate
instances that all have their own state.
They're all separate and
they don't mix with each other.
And that is the module
pattern in a nutshell.
The idea that I take some behavior, and
data that that behavior operates on, and
encapsulate it into a data structure.
Hide what I don't need to show, and
expose only the minimal necessary API.
That's a module.
And I would argue that the module
pattern is certainly the most prevalent,
and potentially the most important
of all code organization patterns.
Probably 80, 90% of all JavaScript
that's ever been written
has used some mechanism like the module
pattern as it's code organization pattern.
That's not to say you don't have other
patterns, like classes, for example, but
the module pattern is extremely
prevalent and important, and
it's important that we
understand how it works.
Now, let's all admit that this is sort of
a syntactic hack, this is not really like,
you wouldn't really call this first
class language support for a module.
You would call this an idiom,
a pattern that we do using
the tools in a way that
accomplishes some end goal.